                                                                                                                                                                                           DAY 1

Introduction to C#

C#-->1)Product of Microsoft.
          2)Open Source.
          3)Roslyn-Compiler to compile the program.
          4)It is 90% close to java.


*Roslyn is a compiler for c# in .Net Core.
Major part in .Net core is WebApi.

Dotnet Build- Command to compile the program.
Dotnet run- Command to run the program.

Namespace- Collection of Classes.
                  -Meant to avoid the ambiguity.
//using is a keyword to include the namespace.


Ambiguity-Multiple classes having same name in different library.
**In a single project we can have multiple library.


                                                                                                                                                                                        DAY2

Class- It is a way of organizing information about a type of data so a programmer can reuse element when making multiple instances of that data type.
Class is a keyword to create user defined data type.
Within a class, we can have multiple kind of variables.


Object- When we create an object, it automatically inherits from an object class.


Stack memory- It only allows elements of fixed size. Execution of function takes place in stack memory.


Variable in C#
1)Instance Variable
2)Instance Rad Only Variable
3)Static Variable-is a kind of variable which makes single copy and commom to all the belongings.
4)Static read only Variable

Initialize Variable in c#:

1)How to initialize Instance variable:
  a)using object .
  b)using method
  c)using Constructor
  d)using Properties

2)how to initialize Instance read only variable:
  a)using constructor.

3)How to initialize static variable:
    a)using class name
    b)using method
    c)using Constructor
    d)using Properties

4)How to initialize static read only variable:
  a)Static Constructor

**Instance variable makes a seperate copy for each block.
**Static variable is a kind of variable which makes a single copy and common to all the belongings thats why it is accessed by class name and not by object name.


***If we dont allocate the memory of a class, the constryctor will not be called.





                                                                                                                                                                                      DAY 3

There are two types of aliasing :

1) Var
2) Dynamic

1) Var:-
            i).Declaration and initialization is must. Cannot declare var in class scope, only in function scope, within a function itself.
            ii).Cannot change the type.
            iii).Only value can be changed.
            iv).Early Binding

 Ex:-    var x=10;-- declaration and initialization is must.
            x = "Ganesh".-------> X  --> cannot change the type.
            

2) Dyanamic:
i).Type can be changed.
ii).Value can be changed
iii).Can be initialized in class scope.
iv).Can be initialized in function parameter.
v). Can be declared inside a function.

Ex:-    var x=10;-- declaration and initialization is must.
            x = "Ganesh".---->can change the type.
            

** In case of multiple returns, the first return is considered.


**Same class- "this" keyword.
**Different class-"base" keyword.

Out is a keyword used for returning multiple values from function.

Function Overloading- Provides multiple options for the same work.

Object-
It can store any kind of value becase the object is the base class of all type.
Need to cast object variable to original type to use it and performing desired operations. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------(DAY4)---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


1)What is enum ?
While programming we use few data which are contant which we use most often 
so we store it in enum and can use it accordingly.

Syntax :
enum nameofenum {const,const,const,...}
Const can be int ,float,double etc
Here indexing start from 0 to n
If we change the first index the other will follow automatically
Ex- {const=1,const,const,...}
Then the next will be 2 and next 3 and so on.


2)Abstract class?

An abstract class is a class that is declared abstract it may or may not include 
abstract methods. Abstract classes cannot be instantiated (to create an instance of),
but they can be subclassed.

3)Interface?
It is like abstract class because all the methods which are declared inside the interface 
are abstract methods.but the difference is that we don’t use abstract keyword before class
it by default abstract no need for abstract keyword. Here for a class to inherit from 
interface it donot need to be sub class of that class and no need to write override keyword
as well unlike we use in abstract class.


Constructor- is automatically called when we create objet.
Constructor name is same as class name .
Constructor does not return anything.
Constructor is used to initialize the variable.

Object Format:
class_name  Object_name = new class_ name.

value type:
1)value type are fixed type.
2)value type are stored in stack.
The following data types are all of value type:
bool,byte,char,decimal,double,enum,float,int,long,sbyte,short,struct,uint,ulong,ushort.


Reference type:
1)Reference type are Pointer type
2)Reference type are stored in heap.
The following data types are all of reference  type:
Class,Object,Delegate,Interface,String.


Boxing:
1)A boxing conversion permits any value-type to be implicitly converted to the type object or to any interface-type implemented by the value-type. Boxing a value of a value-type consists of allocating an object instance and copying the value-type value into that instance.

Unboxing:
1)An unboxing conversion permits an explicit conversion from type object to any value-type or from any interface-type to any value-type that implements the interface-type. An unboxing operation consists of first checking that the object instance is a boxed value of the given value-type, and then copying the value out of the instance.

 
Interface:
1)When a function is common in multiple classes then that function that function should be declared inside the interface
2)If a class is implementing interface then it must implement all the function in Interface.
3)Interface is meant for making the rules for the classes.
4)By the interface we make the class consistent.
5)Within an interface we can have fn declaration and the fn is abstract.
In interface whenever we declare a fn, it is by default abstract,




                                                                                                                                                                                           ( DAY5)
1)Properties- is a technique by which we can achieve encapsulation.
By prop. we can access the  private variables of a class outside the class.

**get and Set is an accessor.

Using get:- retrieve the value
Using set- assign the value


C# Scopes
Public
Private 
Protected
Internal


 
2)Indexer
3)Delegate
Is a way to achieve Encapsulation.
When you want high end of encapsulation, make object of delegates.
We decide in delegate object , what to see..

4)Anonymus method
5)lembda expression






                                                                                                                                                                                               DAY 6

Generics- The purpose of generics is to avoid boxing and unboxing.
< > Angular bracket --> Generics





Static constructor is a special type of constructor. 
1. We cannot pass parameter.
2. We cannot define the scope like access modifier before the static constructor.
3. Static constructor is so special kind of constructor which runs before the main function.
4. We can initialize the static variable and static read only variable. But Static constructor is mainly meant for initializing the static read only variable. 


1. What is Static Function??
Ans.Static function is a kind of function we can call by the class name. The purpose of declaring the function as a static, if a function returns a value and common for everyone or belongings of that class.
Example:
If a function returns  a company address, it means whomsoever who will call this function will get the same value.


3.What is Member Function??
Ans. Member Function is a kind of function we can call by the object name.
The purpose of making a member function, the output the function will differ from object to object.







DAY7)

1)What is Delegate?
2)Why Delegate is needed?
3)Architecture of delegate
4)Anonymous Method---- Simplifying the delegate process
   lambda- Eliminating the delegate keyword & writing the "=>".
5)event
6)Callback



                                                                                                                                               Day11(m F of object class,Contructor,Destructor,PolyMorphism,static polymorphism)



1)object --- Root/Base Class ----implicitily

Member function of object class

1)memberwiseclone()
2)tostring()
3)GetHashcode()
4)Finalize() =>is a function which act as destructor but nor  a destructor (Supports Garbage collection ) ????     //plays major role

2)Compiler provides two things for your class automatically-

1) implicit Default Contructor- when u allocate the memory of the class the constructor is called.
2) implicit Destructor - When you loose the scope of the program(main Function) destructor will be called.

**Role Of Destructor -Deallocate/Clean the Resources ../Memory(cleanUp)

**by dispose we acieve - explicit garbage collection(called during the program) 
**by finalize we achieve - implicit garbage collection(not called during the program)

3) Polymorphism - It is a mechanism Which enhance the capabilities of an object , so that same object can behave differentily in different situations.













                                                                                                                                                                                            

